# Information Literacy Resources #

Arms, K. \[TEDx Talks]. (2017). *Information Literacy* \[Video file]. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3BAfs_oDevw 
> This video explores how information literacy is changing with the production of new information. It looks specifically at how fake news has effected information literacy and what methods and techniques we can use to combat such a epidemic of false information. Kevin Arms, the speaker, is a librarian and archivist at Lake-Sumter State College, and serves as the college's faculty advisor for the literary and arts magazine. With his knowledge and expertise, he discusses specific strategies to try and combat the flow of misinformation. This video should demonstrate how to use information literacy in a world where false information is prevalent. 

Kovářová, P., & Zadražilová, I. (2013). The Influence of Technological Changes on the Definition of Information Literacy. *Communications in Computer and Information Science, 397,* 118-125. https://link-springer-com.ezproxy.uky.edu/content/pdf/10.1007%2F978-3-319-03919-0.pdf
> Doctors in the Department of Information Studies and Library Science at Masaryk University, Kovářová and Zadražilová, address how information technology has changed information literacy. The article goes into detail about how there is not one definition for understanding information literacy and how the scope of it is not limited, but expanding. With the change in information technology environments and its effect on information literacy, Helvoort (2010) provides five points of interest that Kovářová and Zadražilová found important: "content integration, amateur publishing, use of social networks to find information, personalization and push technology, and loss of context/fragmentation of information." The article then goes on to describe how the prevalence of new information literacies involving information technology, such as media literacy, digital literacy, network literacy, etc., have affected the definition of information literacy. This article should provide a explanation for how the definition of information literacy is changing, do to the advance of information technology, and how it will continue to progress and change throughout the future.

Owusu-Ansah, E. (2005). Debating definitions of information literacy: Enough is enough. *Library Review, 54*(6), 366-374. https://www-emerald-com.ezproxy.uky.edu/insight/content/doi/10.1108/00242530510605494/full/pdf?title=debating-definitions-of-information-literacy-enough-is-enough
> Owusu-Ansah, who is now the Dean at Cheng Library at William Patterson University, discusses how the debate over how define information literacy needs to come to an end. Owusu-Ansah brings in several academic references who provide their own definitions about what information literacy is and how it can be interpreted. The main argument of the article is that the ALA definition of information literacy is to vague and needs expanding upon so as to encompass the development of new information technologies that spread information. Owusu-Ansah then goes on to discuss how the ACRL (Association of College and Research Libraries) greatly contributed to information literacy by publishing the guidlines for facilitating information literacy education, *Information Literacy Compentency Standards for Higher Education*. The article then switches to explain some key definicienes seen in education for information seekers and hope by clarifying a what information literacy is, it can help in the information seekers acquire certain skill sets for gaining information. Owusu-Ansah concludes his paper by discussing how information literacy guidelines and definitions can be applied outside a library environment. Owusu-Ansah provides exceptional references for other information sources about information literacy and about how the definition of information literacy should not be a concrete definition, but should allow for growth and change.

Bliss, A. C. (2019). Adult Science-Based Learning: The Intersection of Digital, Science, and Information Literacies. *Adult Learning, 30*(3), 128–137. https://doi-org.ezproxy.uky.edu/10.1177/1045159519829042

Morrow, Jordan. \[Tedx Talks]. (2019). *Why everyone should be data literate* \Video file]. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8ovyQZ_Z8Xs
