# Information Literacy Resources #

Arms, K. \[TEDx Talks]. (2017). *Information Literacy* \[Video file]. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3BAfs_oDevw 
> This video explores how information literacy is changing with the production of new information. It looks specifically at how fake news has effected information literacy and what methods and techniques we can use to combat such a epidemic of false information. Kevin Arms, the speaker, is a librarian and archivist at Lake-Sumter State College, and serves as the college's faculty advisor for the literary and arts magazine. With his knowledge and expertise, he discusses specific strategies to try and combat the flow of misinformation. This video should demonstrate how to use information literacy in a world where false information is prevalent. 

Kovářová, P., & Zadražilová, I. (2013). The Influence of Technological Changes on the Definition of Information Literacy. *Communications in Computer and Information Science, 397,* 118-125. https://link-springer-com.ezproxy.uky.edu/content/pdf/10.1007%2F978-3-319-03919-0.pdf
> Doctors in the Department of Information Studies and Library Science at Masaryk University, Kovářová and Zadražilová, address how information technology has changed information literacy. The article goes into detail about how there is not one definition for understanding information literacy and how the scope of it is not limited, but expanding. With the change in information technology environments and its effect on information literacy, Helvoort (2010) provides five points of interest that Kovářová and Zadražilová found important: "content integration, amateur publishing, use of social networks to find information, personalization and push technology, and loss of context/fragmentation of information." The article then goes on to describe how the prevalence of new information literacies involving information technology, such as media literacy, digital literacy, network literacy, etc., have affected the definition of information literacy. This article should provide a explanation for how the definition of information literacy is changing, do to the advance of information technology, and how it will continue to progress and change throughout the future.

Owusu-Ansah, E. (2005). Debating definitions of information literacy: Enough is enough. *Library Review, 54*(6), 366-374. https://www-emerald-com.ezproxy.uky.edu/insight/content/doi/10.1108/00242530510605494/full/pdf?title=debating-definitions-of-information-literacy-enough-is-enough
> Owusu-Ansah, who is now the Dean at Cheng Library at William Patterson University, discusses how the debate over how define information literacy needs to come to an end. Owusu-Ansah brings in several academic references who provide their own definitions about what information literacy is and how it can be interpreted. The main argument of the article is that the ALA definition of information literacy is to vague and needs expanding upon so as to encompass the development of new information technologies that spread information. Owusu-Ansah then goes on to discuss how the ACRL (Association of College and Research Libraries) greatly contributed to information literacy by publishing the guidlines for facilitating information literacy education, *Information Literacy Compentency Standards for Higher Education*. The article then switches to explain some key definicienes seen in education for information seekers and hope by clarifying a what information literacy is, it can help in the information seekers acquire certain skill sets for gaining information. Owusu-Ansah concludes his paper by discussing how information literacy guidelines and definitions can be applied outside a library environment. Owusu-Ansah provides exceptional references for other information sources about information literacy and about how the definition of information literacy should not be a concrete definition, but should allow for growth and change.

Bliss, A. C. (2019). Adult Science-Based Learning: The Intersection of Digital, Science, and Information Literacies. *Adult Learning, 30*(3), 128–137. https://doi-org.ezproxy.uky.edu/10.1177/1045159519829042
> Bliss discusses a common concept in which being information literate is important - the adult learning process. She explains that the learning process has become increasingly self-directed as technology has advanced. This is relevant to information literacy because the way in which we seek out and consume information has changed with development of technology and the internet. Digital technologies has required adults to adopt new skills in order to discern information from misinformation and develop ways to make sense of new information. These skills which are the trifecta of literacy skills are digital literacy, science literacy, and information literacy. Bliss defines information literacy in part as being able to apply critical thinking and evaluation skills. This article is timely as it was published recently in August of 2019. The author, Angela Collier Bliss, is a credible figure with a PhD and a passion for adult science-based learning. She cites many reliable rescources such as the Journal of the American Society for Information Science and Technology, as well as conducts her own research for this article.

Morrow, Jordan. \[Tedx Talks]. (2019). *Why everyone should be data literate* \[Video file]. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8ovyQZ_Z8Xs
> This video focuses on the aspects of data literacy and why it is important for everyone to be data literate. Data literacy is a foundation of information literacy since information in many ways relies on interpreting and utilizing data. In his Ted Talk, Morrow explains to be data literate means being able to read, work with, analyze, and argue with data - all of which are important aspects of information literacy. In the digital age that we live in it is important to be able to comprehend data, determine its credibility and be able to put it to use in our professional and personal lives.

Lloyd, A. (2010). Information literacy landscapes: Information literacy in education, workplace and everyday contexts. Elsevier.
> This book provides insight on Information literacy in a multitude of ways. It provides a conceptual orientation, details on how information literacy is used within the workplace, education, and academic libraries. After explaining the specifics for each evergrowing aspect of information literacy it also supplies the reader with landscapes on information literacy and how they can be seen within each category of Information literacy. The author of this book, Annemaree Lloyd, is a well known senior lecturer at Charles Stuart University whose research focuses on information literacy in thoretical and applied concepts. Lloyd has been cited in over two-hundred and fifty articles and journals and cited over fifty scholarly articles within her book.

Belshaw, Doug. \[Tedx Talks]. (2012). *The essential elements of digital literacies: Doug Belshaw at TEDxWarwick* \[Video file]. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A8yQPoTcZ78
> This video examines and explains how Information literacy can relate to each person in many different ways. Doug Belshaw explains how digital literacy is multi faceted and has many definitions. He emphasizes the fact that digital literacy is evergrowing alongside technilogial advances. He goes forward with explaining how information and digital literacies should be learned in a way that is more progressive. Belshaw has completed his doctorate on digital and new literacies and has since been conducting research on it. 

Gullbekk, E., Skagen, T., Tonning, A. S. V., & Torras Calvo, M. C. (2009). Information Literacy and Changes within Higher Education. Nordic Journal of Information Literacy in Higher Education, 1(1). https://doi.org/10.15845/noril.v1i1.38
> This article discusses how information literacy has evolved within higher educational institutions, especially in the role librarians have played over time and their importance and hierarchical role in providing relevant and credible reading material to serve the purpose of university teaching. Gullbeck describes information literacy as “knowing when and why you need information, where to find it and how to evaluate, use and communicate it in an ethical manner” (Gullbekk, Skagen, Tonning, & Torres, 2009 p. 2). It is discussed later that because of this definition, the librarian is charged with an increasingly difficult and ever changing role, due to the many different technological changes that institutions have implemented in recent years. Because of the “complex electronically accessible global information networks” (Gullbekk et al., 2009 p. 4) that many educational libraries employ today, librarians are utilized much differently than they were in past decades; and ultimately the library pedagogy as a whole needs to be able to handle these new changes as they are unfolding, or else institutions run the risk of increasing populations that aren’t information literate and who can’t properly seek out the tools they need. 

Quijada, A. [TedxABQED]. (2013). Creating Critical Thinkers through Media Literacy [Video file].https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aHAApvHZ6XE
This video features media literacy educator, Andrea Quijada, who has spent over a decade educating students K-12 on the importance of deconstructing media, particularly in identifying the text and subsequent subtext of media articles, advertisements, newspapers and television shows/ commercials. She illustrates the “untold stories” of media” which have the power to distort students impressions of media who don't have the proper literacy skills. She provides examples of middle and high school students who have learned how to “rewrite” misleading advertisements, after they learned what they underlying messages of what the ads meant. Essentially, once students are given the literacy tools to deconstruct media messages, they are able to make better, more informed decisions when it comes to consuming media. She elaborates that if media literacy was taught specifically in schools that students would not only be honing their literacy skills, but would be able to connect school to their daily lives in a practical way. 




